It went out of bounds!
So lucky!
Karasuno                    Aoba Jousai
We won the first set against Seijou!
We took the first set!
All right!
Take the second set too!
Sorry.
That idiot!
Not only was that obviously Kindaichi's ball,
but then he steals it only to hit it out of bounds?!
On top of that, they were at set point!
How can I even start to explain?!
What you did was dangerous!
Iwaizumi!
Yeah, that's it! That needs to be said first!
Oh, I'm perfectly fine...
I was stressed because I had to
stand on the sidelines for so long.
That's not a valid reason!
What's with that guy?
Why would Seijou swap in a guy like that?
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Oh, it's that guy from earlier.
He must be starting this set.
Since he's replacing Kunimi,
he might be pretty quick on his feet.
Be careful.
You're more or less free to play how you want,
but if you get in our way, you'll be back on the bench.
Just don't do anything dangerous like before.
Right.
Why did you only reply to Iwa?!
He challenged Iwaizumi every chance he got and lost every single time,
so Iwaizumi is the only person he obeys.
Arm Wresting Contest
Not so fast!
What are we, a wolf pack?
Well, the one who'll be putting him to use is Oikawa.
That's true.
Let's ride this momentum and settle the score!
We're gonna win the second set too!
Yeah!
Leap and fly! High!
Flecked with blood, sweat, and tears
Those glistening wings can let you leave it all behind
So just fly
H
a
i
S
e
k
y
c
u
o
n
u
d
!
S
e
!
a
s
o
n
Fly high
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Into the distant future
H
a
i
k
y
u
H
a
i
k
y
u
S
e
c
o
n
d
S
e
a
s
o
n
S
e
c
o
n
d
S
e
a
s
o
n
!
The bruise-covered fledgling glares up at the sky
As the ones who've just found their wings laugh derisively
They just want to see the ends of the ocean
Empty your mind
Let the headwinds guide your approach
And with a hop, step, and a jump
Leap and fly! High!
Let your wings, glistening with blood, sweat, and tears
Take you to wherever you need to go
Unleash your unrefined impulses
Uncover your instincts and bare your uncut fangs
It may take an arduous path
But be torn down it endlessly to achieve your dream
So just fly
Fly high
Into the distant future
Episode Twenty-one:
The Destroyer
You can do this, Asahi!
Let it go!
Damn it! Sorry!
So close! You'll get the next one!
Shake it off!
Your face is scary!
What'd you say?!
Give us a good one, Oikawa!
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
It's going out!
Sorry!
It's fine! We'll get the next one!
I wonder what's wrong with Oikawa.
He messed up another serve.
He hits the ball so hard, though.
Touching it would tear off your arms.
I think his aim is slowly getting better.
Give us a good serve, Tsukishima!
Bastard!
Nice save, Iwa!
There are three attackers in the front row.
Who's it gonna be?
Mad Dog!
An open set to the right?!
What the heck is "Mad Dog"?!
Is that his nickname?
That's so awesome!
Block it!
What?
He's sprinting basically parallel to the net?!
Three blockers!
That cut shot was insane!
So that's why he made that approach.
Huh?
When you face the blockers head-on,
you have some options for where to hit it,
but chances are you'll get blocked.
Instead, he hit it to cut across the blockers.
He comes in from the right and hits with his right hand,
pulling off that incredible cut shot.
Wow!
Mad Dog is amazing!
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Give us a good one, Iwaizumi!
It's coming back over! We can score here!
Damn it! Sorry!
Oikawa and Iwaizumi serving back-to-back is putting a lot of pressure on them.
Got it!
And on top of that, there's also Mad Dog.
A double quick attack?!
All right!
I know he's a mad dog, but he's not going to keep biting forever, so you can come inside.
Shorty caught on that you weren't going to hit it, Kindaichi.
Sorry! I chickened out a bit there!
Give us another good serve, Iwa!
Yeah!
Nice receive!
C Quick!
Y-You okay?!
Y-Yeah, I'm fine. Totally fine.
It's number sixteen again!
That's three points in a row!
Even though his spikes are landing, they seem pretty violent.
Ever since number sixteen subbed in,
the rhythm of their attacks has changed.
Nice spike, Kyoutani!
Give us another good serve, Iwaizumi!
Aoba Jousai                  Karasuno
Sorry!
All right!
We finally got a point back.
Nice, Makki!
Here he comes!
You're on, Mad Dog!
After number sixteen makes a few flashy attacks,
it's a broad jump from Kindaichi!
All right!
He's angry that he was used as a decoy.
That anger just makes him a better decoy, though.
I'll make those fangs of yours even sharper.
Let's play carefully.
That team isn't the Seijou we're familiar with.
Aoba Jousai                             Karasuno
Give us a good serve, Kindaichi!
Got it!
Left!
Center!
So their strategy is to always have a middle blocker on Hinata?
It's up! Get it!
Got it! Finish it off, Kyoutani!
Sorry! It's close to the net!
Three blockers!
If he spikes, they'll block it.
Hit it back to us!
Nice block!
All right!
That was an amazingly brave spike.
That idiot...
Dumbass! You could've done a soft hit or tipped it over!
An attack doesn't feel right if I don't hit it as hard as I can!
You little...
Now, now, Mizoguchi.
What needs to be corrected will be corrected in due time.
Right.
What were you saying about him being smart?
I just thought that he might be!
He doesn't know how good it feels to get a nice tip off!
What a shame.
Aoba Jousai                 Karasuno
Makki!
Nice one, Nishinoya!
Nice, Makki!
Mad Dog!
He's coming in from the side again!
I'm going to stop him this time!
All right!
What a relief.
I guess trying to bust through three blockers via a narrow gap with a powerful spike has its risks.
That attack is powerful but unreliable.
Since he didn't start in any matches so far,
he might be something of a double-edged sword.
Number sixteen's spike...
It was all "whoosh" and "boom"!
It's so cool!
Isn't it?
Of course, Mad Dog can jump high, as well as
having unbelievable dorsal and abdominal muscles.
Nice receive!
He arches back to build up power, and then he lets it all loose!
He really packs a punch.
If he gets through a block, the ball won't be easy to dig out.
All right!
He finally got one in.
Oikawa used him well.
If it were me, I would've given the ball to someone else.
Tenacity and boldness.
You can't utilize Mad Dog if you're timid.
Give us a good one, Kyoutani!
Let it go!
All right!
His serve is quite dynamic too.
Nice call!
Aoba Jousai                 Karasuno
Such a back-and-forth match.
It's basically a stalemate.
Yeah.
Number sixteen's spikes are impressive, but he messes them up often.
All right!
Give us a good one, Iwaizumi!
Someone get it!
Finish it, Makki!
Got it!
Let's go again!
He messed up the receive!
Watch the left side!
That was on purpose.
Mad Dog!
His timing's faster than before!
It's second tempo!
I'm well aware that he's a double-edged sword!
All the more reason to make the best use of his strengths!
All right!
What a crazy angle.
Only a setter can know how good it feels to peel away the blockers using your own skill.
Get on it!
Nice receive!
Center!
Aoba Jousai               Karasuno
Give us a good serve, Shouyou!
Hinata, give it all you've got!
I rotated to the back row without spiking again.
Got it!
Nice receive!
All right! Let's do this!
Hinata's doing a back row attack!
My first back row attack!
Yeah!
Did you think now was your opportunity to use that?
So did I.
Keep calm, keep calm, keep calm...
That was my back row attack's debut...
I thought they could score two in a row.
If they don't start catching up soon, they'll be in trouble.
Huh?
Sugawara got called over to the bench?
Are they changing setters again?
Kageyama seems to be doing fine.
What happened now wasn't his fault.
Oikawa is just really good.
Actually, I don't think they're switching out Kageyama.
I won't let them run away with this.
We're going to do everything we can first.
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
H
a
S
e
i
c
k
y
o
n
u
d
S
e
!
a
s
o
n
Is Sugawara switching with someone?
It's a tactical player substitution.
Please don't use such big words.
Aren't you in college?
You know how substitutions can happen
when someone's not doing well or gets hurt,
or how there are times where a pinch server or single-point blocker goes in, right?
The latter two are tactical player substitutions.
All right!
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Nice spike, Iwaizumi!
In their previous match against Seijou, they were cornered and ended up being forced to switch him in.
But this time, they're most likely doing it proactively.
Number sixteen is a bit of an unknown,
so dealing with Seijou has gotten even harder.
But we're not going to just let them have it.
Yes, but before that...
Give us a good serve, Oikawa!
Oh, here it comes.
That's a nice serve toss.
All right!
It's like getting slapped in the face really hard
and snapping back to reality.
Neither of us can let the other win,
and we've both trained for that purpose.
It all makes sense.
It's an obvious fact, yet the reality is so terrifying.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Give us another good serve!
Up front!
Damn it! I held back too much!
Nice receive, Nishinoya!
Left!
Tanaka!
Three blockers!
All right!
Good one, Ryuu!
Oh, here it is.
The substitution.
All right! We're gonna catch up now!
Yeah!
Suga, we need a good serve here!
Yep.
Bring it!
Give us a good serve, Suga!
Serving right after you get subbed in sure is nerve-racking.
But there's only one place to aim for.
Kyoutani!
That was good!
Now number sixteen can't make it in time for a spike!
All right!
They scored!
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Give us another good serve, Suga!
Again?!
Kyoutani is a wing spiker, but he's the type who goes for one fast attack after another.
They're getting him to move to receive serves so that he's out of position for spikes.
What an annoying tactic from Karasuno's number two!
Nice receive, Daichi!
All right!
Yes!
Kageyama pulled back from an attack?
Five Karasuno spikers?!
Yeah!
N-Nice spike...
Damn it. Kageyama's straight spike is awesome!
Was that just now what you call a two-setter formation?
Ugh, even more jargon...
Then...
It's a tactical single point by two setters!
Right?
That's too long.
All right!
Aoba Jousai                  Karasuno
Just one more point!
All right!
They're really in the groove after
that well-timed player substitution.
All of the third-years are good at receiving.
I see!
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Net
Server
Volleyball works on a rotational system where each player's position on the court constantly changes.
The front row and back row have different jobs, so each rotation has certain strengths.
And apparently,
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Net
Server
the rotation where Tsukishima is serving is weak for both offense and defense.
There are only two spikers in front,
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Server
and Tsukishima can't block from the back.
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Server
So considering their rotation,
it's quite a feat that they were able to keep scoring.
Well, what's it going to be?
How about we pull him back?
Yeah.
Give us another good serve, Suga!
They're going after Kyoutani again!
Got it!
Nice, Makki!
They always figure out a solution so quickly!
All right!
Nice work, Suga!
Thanks.
Damn it.
I wanted to tie the match up.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Tanaka!
Yeah!
Give us a good one, Kageyama!
Iwa!
He got it!
Watacchi!
Right!
All right!
How do I put this?
Doesn't it feel like they're concentrating an unnatural amount of their offense on number sixteen?
Yeah, it does.
Maybe they're trying to get all the attention on number sixteen so they can hand it off to someone else later.
No matter how many times Mad Dog spikes, I'm not gonna get tricked anymore!
Tanaka!
Got it!
Nice, Makki!
I know why we subbed Kyoutani in.
It's for the little extra punch we needed to improve our offense.
Mad Dog!
If we don't use him to his fullest, we're in trouble!
All right!
Damn it...
Here come the points!
Hey, it was just getting good!
They reached 20 points first.
Even if they lose this set,
Karasuno already won the first one.
As long as they take the next set, they'll be fine.
No.
It's better to take this set by any means necessary.
We're gonna finish this!
Yeah!
I have a bad feeling about the outcome if they don't.
Give us another good serve, Kindaichi!
Up front!
S-Sorry!
Don't overthink it.
Here we go!
Give us a good one, Tanaka!
Nice receive!
All right!
Trying not to think about something is no different than actually thinking about it.
Aoba Jousai                             Karasuno
Give us a good serve, Kyoutani!
Bring it!
All right!
The double-edged sword...
Subbing in number sixteen was the sink-or-swim moment for Seijou,
but I thought he had a proven track record.
Sir!
Yes!
All right!
Again? That was fast!
Now Karasuno's used up all of their timeouts.
With number sixteen as their new weapon,
they racked up points in a disturbingly certain manner.
Yet it turns out they were using most of this set to bring him up to speed?
Kyoutani is slow to get going and needs lots of support.
But once he does, he's quite impressive.
This isn't good.
The mood of a match can have a huge impact on the next set.
How the previous set ended is especially vital.
Seijou definitely has the upper hand right now.
Let's bring it in!
Karasuno, fight!
Karasuno needs to do whatever it takes to win this set and end it!
Yeah!
Give us another good one, Kyoutani!
Let's get this one!
Yeah!
Stop bugging me.
I already know.
Please put me in there!
When I was just a nobody, something lit up my eyes
I was merely a guy languishing complacently in the dark, happy with what I had
Now I'm torn toward the heavens even on a starless night
Whether our time comes to us or not is a matter for those in another world
That's right, our lungs pumping and our hearts beating is all we have in this new realm
We've always been dancing on an unlit stage, but now beyond that
We're awaiting the rising of a sun that none have yet witnessed
Now that we're deliberating at a crossroads, paths blurring together
We can feel it
Inside this uncharted world which has yet to take on a name
As I'm waiting for the dawn to reach my eyes with a familiar light
I'm reminded of days I won't return to, and seeking proof of newfound existence
We brace ourselves
Looks like your engine's warming up, Mad Dog.
Let's finish this!
Kyoutani, we're gonna take this set.
Right.
Why do you only answer Iwa?!
I'm not gonna set for you anymore!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
Episode Twenty-two:
The Fight of the Previously Spineless
"The Fight of the Previously Spineless."